Game of 100

Game Overview:
Two Teams of 2 players sit across from each other and bid each round called a "hand". Each hand is worth 100 points. First team to score 500 wins!

Game Setup:
Use a regular deck of 52 playing cards and one joker. Four players begin by selecting one player to deal out 12 cards to each player leaving 5 cards in the middle as the "cat". The next hand will be dealt by the player to the left and so on.

Bidding:
Player to the left of the dealer bids first. Player may pass or bid. Players bid by saying the number of points starting at 62 that they believe their team can make. Another player can overbid and the first bidder can then overbid as well. This continues until someone passes. The winner of the bid has the right to name trump and to take possession of the cat. If the winner of the bid does not make the number of points that were bid, then that number is deleted from the team's score. Bid can go as high as 100. A player may "Double" which is a promise to make all 100 points. The player chooses trump before seeing the cat. If the bidder wants to bid 200 then they have that choice and bidding immediately stops. If the bidder makes 100 points, their score will read 200. If they do not make the 100 points then their score goes backwards by 200 points!

Trump is named by the bidder after the cat is revealed (unless it's a double and then trump is named before seeing the cards in the cat). Every player keeps six cards in their hand. If they have less than 6 trump cards they keep any other cards so that each person holds six cards. Each person plays following the bidder's lead. If trump is led, trump must be played. The player who plays the highest card wins the hand. The winner of the hand leads next and may play trump or not as desired. Each person tries to take tricks containing points. Play continues until all cards are played. If the points earned by the bidder's team add up to at least what they bid then they receive all the points they have earned. The other team receives the points they have earned. If the points earned by the bidder's team do not add up to what was bid, the number bid is subtracted from their score. Near the end of the game if both teams are about to go over 500, remember: "the bidder counts first!"

Trump cards:
Ace, King, "Opposite King" (same color King of another suit), Queen, Jack, Opposite Jack, 10, 9, Opposite Nine, 8, 7, 6, 5, Opposite Five, 4, 3, 2, Joker (only one joker card). Cards have point values. Ace = 1 point, King and Opposite King = 25, Queen = 0, Jack's = 1 point each, 10 = 1, 9's = 9each, 5's = 5each, 2 = 1, Joker = 17 points. All other cards have zero points.

Passing:
When you have more than 6 trump, you must pass the extras to your partner. You must announce that you are passing cards and how many you are passing. (HINT: this would be a strategic play: If you have one King but are missing the other king, pass your partner your Ace. Then Lead high and keep the lead so that your partner can put the ace on the opponent's king in case the cards work that way. If you have 2 kings and no ace, pass one of the kings to your partner. Lead low so someone else will take the lead which puts you or your partner on the end so you can each save the king. Lead low at every opportunity until you have both saved the kings.)

If when the bidder passes cards to you and you end up with more than six trump, place extra cards face up for all to see. Place face up the lowest cards that do not have points.

Exceptions:
If you have all or almost all point cards in your hand and you may need to put cards face up, then before you take the passed cards tell your partner out loud before they pass cards to you: "I can only take (so many) counters" your partner will then pass no-counters to you. Example: You have four trump cards, Jack, ten, nine and two. Your partner says "I have three cards to pass". You will then have seven trump cards and will need to put one up. One of the cards your partner sends will have to have zero points so you say "I can only take two counters." If you have more than six trump and your partner has more than six trump, the cards are passed simultaneously. You will both be putting cards up, so be sure to say how many counters you can take. 

Strategy:
When bidding, if you are first to bid for your team, remember that no matter how bad your cards are, your partner's may be worse. If you pass, your partner is forced to bid. If you have one black and one red king, you could consider passing. You will have your partner's king if they get the bid or the opponents king is they get the bid. Keep in mind that in addition to the high cards in your hand, your partner may have high cards to help you and the cat may contain high cards to help you. If you are losing by a lot of points, you might take a chance and double. If you need less than 50 points to win, you could "smudge" out (don't bid and prepare to get your points and set the other team!) But remember the bidder counts first!

